#Full Stack Nanodegree Project 4 - Hangman Game

## Set-Up Instructions:
1.  Update the value of application in app.yaml to the app ID you have registered
 in the App Engine admin console and would like to use to host your instance of this sample.
2.  Run the app with the devserver using dev_appserver.py DIR, and ensure it's
 running by visiting the API Explorer - by default localhost:8080/_ah/api/explorer.
3.  Alternatively, deploy your application to the Google cloud platform and test out the endpoints
 by visiting the Google API Explorer for your deployed app - link is {App ID}.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer. 
 You can test out the endpoints via the API explorer of the sample deployed app - link is 
 https://hangman-game-1249.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer
 

##Game Description:
This is an improvised version of the traditional Hangman guessing game. Each game begins 
with a single 'target' word of at least 8 alphabets, and a maximum of 10 'wrong letter guesses' 
allowed. The goal is to eventually guess the target word, by guessing the individual letters 
that make up the target word. 'Guesses' are sent to the `make_move` endpoint which will reply
with either: 'correct letter guess', 'wrong letter guess', 'you win', or 'game over' (which 
signifies a loss, when the maximum number of wrong letter guesses is reached). There is no limit 
the number of correct letter guesses required to complete the target word. A 'final score' is awarded 
at the end of the game, based on the number of wrong letter guesses remaining (maximum 10, minimum 0). 
Many different Hangman games can be played by many different Users at any given time. Each game 
can be retrieved or played by using the path parameter `urlsafe_game_key`.


##Files Included:
 - api.py: Contains endpoints and game playing logic.
 - app.yaml: App configuration.
 - cron.yaml: Cronjob configuration.
 - index.yaml: Autogenerated file for indexed queries
 - main.py: Handler for taskqueue handler.
 - models.py: Entity and message definitions including helper methods.
 - utils.py: Helper function for retrieving ndb.Models by urlsafe Key string.


##Endpoints Included:
 - **create_user**
    - Path: 'user'
    - Method: POST
    - Parameters: user_name, email (optional)
    - Returns: StringMessage confirming creation of the User.
    - Description: Creates a new User. user_name provided must be unique. Will 
    raise a ConflictException if a User with that user_name already exists.
    
 - **new_game**
    - Path: 'game'
    - Method: POST
    - Parameters: user_name, target_word
    - Returns: GameForm with initial game state.
    - Description: Creates a new Game. user_name provided must correspond to an
    existing user - will raise a NotFoundException if not. Target word must be a sinle word of at 
    least 8 letters and no special characters nor numerals else a BadRequestException will be raised. 
    Also adds a task to a task queue to update the average wrong guesses remaining for active games.
     
 - **get_game**
    - Path: 'game/{urlsafe_game_key}'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: urlsafe_game_key
    - Returns: GameForm with current game state.
    - Description: Returns the current state of a game.
    
 - **make_move**
    - Path: 'game/{urlsafe_game_key}'
    - Method: PUT
    - Parameters: urlsafe_game_key, guess
    - Returns: GameForm with new game state.
    - Description: Accepts a 'guess' and returns the updated state of the game.
    If this causes a game to end, a corresponding Score entity will be created.
    
 - **get_scores**
    - Path: 'scores'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: None
    - Returns: ScoreForms.
    - Description: Returns all Scores in the database (unordered).
    
 - **get_user_scores**
    - Path: 'scores/user/{user_name}'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: user_name
    - Returns: ScoreForms. 
    - Description: Returns all Scores recorded by the provided player (unordered).
    Will raise a NotFoundException if the User does not exist.
    
 - **get_average_wrong_guesses_remaining**
    - Path: 'games/average_wrong_guesses_remaining'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: None
    - Returns: Stringmessage. 
    - Description: Returns the average wrong guesses remaining across all active games from a 
    previously cached memcache key.

 - **get_user_games**
    - Path: 'games/active/user/{user_name}'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: user_name
    - Returns: GameForms.
    - Description: Returns all of an individual User's active games (unordered).

 - **cancel_game**
    - Path: 'game/{urlsafe_game_key}'
    - Method: DELETE
    - Parameters: urlsafe_game_key
    - Returns: Stringmessage confirming deletion.
    - Description: Delete a game. Game must not have ended to be deleted, else a 
    BadRequestException will be raised.

 - **get_high_scores**
    - Path: 'high_scores'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: number_of_results (optional)
    - Returns: ScoreForms.
    - Description: Returns the top highest scores in order. the optional parameter limits 
    the number of results returned.

 - **get_users_rankings**
    - Path: 'users/rankings'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: None
    - Returns: UserForms.
    - Description: Return all Users with at least 1 game played, ordered by their win percentage, 
    average score, and games played.

 - **get_game_history**
    - Path: 'game/{urlsafe_game_key}/history'
    - Method: GET
    - Parameters: urlsafe_game_key
    - Returns: StringMessage of the game's guess history.
    - Description: Returns the guess history of a game as a stringified list of tuples in the form (guess, result) 
    eg: [(Guess: w, Result: Correct letter guess), (Guess: y, Result: Wrong letter guess)]


##Models Included:
 - **User**
    - Stores unique user_name and (optional) email address.
    - Also keeps track of wins, games played, and total score
    
 - **Game**
    - Stores unique game states. Associated with User model via KeyProperty.
    
 - **Score**
    - Records completed games. Associated with Users model via KeyProperty.

   
##Forms Included:
 - **UserForm**
    - Representation of User. Includes games performance

 - **UserForms**
    - Container for one or more UserForm.

 - **GameForm**
    - Representation of a Game's state (urlsafe_key, target_word_length, target_word_progress, 
    wrong_guessies_remaining, game_over flag, message, user_name).

 - **NewGameForm**
    - Used to create a new game (user_name, target_word)

 - **MakeMoveForm**
    - Inbound make move form (guess).

 - **ScoreForm**
    - Representation of a completed game's Score (user_name, date, won flag,
    wrong_guesses, final_score).

 - **ScoreForms**
    - Multiple ScoreForm container.

 - **StringMessage**
    - General purpose String container.